IEEE On how to extract breathing rate from PPG signal using wearable devices



The circular FIFO depth is 32 and can hold up to 32 samples of data. The sample size depends on the number of LED channels (a.k.a. channels) configured as active. As each channel signal is stored as a 3-byte data signal, the FIFO width can be 3 bytes, 6 bytes, 9 bytes, or 12 bytes in size. The FIFO_DATA register in the I2C register map points to the next sample to be read from the FIFO. FIFO_RD_PTR points to this sample. Reading FIFO_DATA register, does not automatically increment the I2C register address. Burst reading this register, reads the same address over and over.
Each sample is 3 bytes of data per channel (i.e., 3 bytes for RED, 3 bytes for IR, etc.). The FIFO registers (0x04–0x07) can all be written and read, but in practice only the FIFO_RD_PTR register should be written to in operation. The others are automatically incremented or filled with data by the device. When starting a new particle-sensing, SpO2 or heart rate conversion, it is recommended to first clear the FIFO_WR_PTR, OVF_COUNTER, and FIFO_RD_PTR registers to all zeroes (0x00) to ensure the FIFO is empty and in a known state. When reading the device registers in one burst-read I2C transaction, the register address pointer typically increments so that the next byte of data sent is from the next register, etc. The exception to this is the FIFO data register, register 0x07. When reading this register, the address pointer does not increment, but the FIFO_RD_PTR does. So the next byte of data sent represents the next byte of data available in the FIFO.
Entering and exiting the proximity mode (when PROX_INT_EN = 1) clears the FIFO by setting the write and read pointers equal to each other.
Normally, reading registers from the I2C interface autoincrements the register address pointer, so that all the registers can be read in a burst read without an I2C start event. In the MAX30102, this holds true for all registers except for the FIFO_DATA register (register 0x07).
Reading the FIFO_DATA register does not automatically increment the register address. Burst reading this register reads data from the same address over and over. Each sample comprises multiple bytes of data, so multiple bytes should be read from this register (in the same transaction) to get one full sample.
The other exception is 0xFF. Reading more bytes after the 0xFF register does not advance the address pointer back to 0x00, and the data read is not meaningful.

The data FIFO consists of a 32-sample memory bank that can store [GREEN, IR, and RED/IR and Red/GREEN, IR, and RED] ADC data. Since each sample consists of [three/two/three] channels of data, there are [9/6/9] bytes of data for each sample, and therefore [288/192/288] total bytes of data can be stored in the FIFO.
The FIFO data is left-justified, as shown in Table 1; in other words, the MSB bit is always in the bit 17 data position, regardless of ADC resolution setting. See Table 2 for a visual presentation of the FIFO data structure.

The data FIFO consists of a 32-sample memory bank that can store IR and Red ADC data. Since each sample consists of two channels of data, there are 6 bytes of data for each sample, and therefore 192 total bytes of data can be stored in the FIFO.
The FIFO data is left-justified as shown in Table 1; in other words, the MSB bit is always in the bit 17 data position regardless of ADC resolution setting. See Table 2 for a visual presentation of the FIFO data structure.

